paneer butter masala recipe | butter paneer recipe | cheese butter masala with detailed photo and video recipe. perhaps one of the premium north indian or punjabi curries if not the king of the paneer curries. it is known for its mildly sweet and spicy taste with the goodness of fresh cream and butter topping with moist paneer. it is one of the most curries for most vegetarians and is prepared for lunch and dinner and served with freshly baked roti, chapati, naan and even a choice of rice.

paneer butter masala recipe | butter paneer recipe | cheese butter masala with step by step photo and video recipe. paneer based meals and curries are one of the essential dishes to many vegetarians for their protein offerings. it can be added to rice, bread, pizza, sandwich and even deep-fried snacks, but curries are the popular choice. out of these paneer curries, the paneer butter masala recipe or also known as paneer makhani is a popular choice for its sweet and spicy curry taste

we always assume that most of the north indian or punjabi curries use the same gravy base with the same technique and hence it must be easy to prepare. this has been one of the stereotypes, especially for the paneer based recipes or curries. perhaps even during my initial days of culinary learning, i use to make all the paneer curries but name it differently as per the occasion. but trust me, there are so many subtle variations and nuances that go to each and every punjabi curry which makes it unique and hence the unique names. for instance, in this recipe of butter paneer, the base is prepared with onion and tomato but is handled differently compared to matar paneer or kadai paneer. in addition, there is a generous amount of butter and fresh cream used which makes it mild sweet and spicy curry. moreover, the spice addition is minimal and hence it is appreciated all over the world and not just in india.

furthermore, some more additional tips, suggestions, variations to the creamy paneer butter masala recipe. firstly, for the butter panner curry, you do not need any other vegetables along with paneer. paneer should be the solo hero ingredient. yet you can add capsicum or onion petals to make it more interesting. secondly, as the name suggests, butter and cream are the key ingredients for this curry along with paneer. hence be generous while adding it to the curry and do not limit yourselves. lastly, to hasten the cooking process you may prepare the curry base and deep freeze it for future use. whenever you require it, you may take the base and add paneer to prepare the final dish.

finally, i request you to check my other detailed paneer recipes collection with this post of paneer butter masala recipe. it mainly includes my other related recipe variants like, paneer tikka frankie, suji roll, homemade paneer – 2 ways, bread paneer pakora, matar paneer, paneer ki sabji, paneer toast, paneer burger, garlic paneer curry, hung curd paratha. further to these i would also like to mention my other related recipe categories like,
